# APIs: Server Side Implementation Notes

_(c) AMWA 2017, CC Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)_

## Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

In order to permit web control interfaces to be hosted remotely, all NMOS APIs MUST implement valid CORS HTTP headers in responses, and respond to HTTP pre-flight OPTIONS requests. In order to simplify development, the following headers may be returned in order to remove these restrictions as far as possible. Note that these are very relaxed and may not be suitable for a production deployment.

```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: GET, PUT, POST, HEAD, OPTIONS, DELETE
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type, Accept
Access-Control-Max-Age: 3600
```

To ensure compatibility, the response 'Access-Control-Allow-Headers' could be set from the request's 'Access-Control-Request-Headers'.

## Use of '.local' Hostnames

Where 'href' or 'host' attributes are specified in the APIs, it is strongly recommended to use either IP addresses or hostnames which are resolvable using unicast DNS. Whilst '.local' hostnames are convenient in a zero-configuration layer 2 network segment, these are not usually resolvable beyond these boundaries. As this specification is intended for use between layer 3 network segments, use of these hostnames may result in Nodes appearing inaccessible.

## Un-initialised Senders and Receivers

When a sender or receiver is first started it may not have all the parameters it needs to operate. For example IP addresses and port numbers may not be set. In this instance:

* Senders and receivers should present sensible default values on transport parameter endpoints. Suggested defaults are given in the relevant schemas. Parameters such as port numbers may have defaults in various RFCs that should be followed. Parameters where no sensible defaults exist, such as source IP address on a receiver, should be set to null.
* Senders that are not configured (for example have a null source IP address value), should return 404 on their active transport file endpoint, until a usable set of parameters has been activated.

## Use of JSON Schema with Constraints

It is strongly recommended that API implementations validate requests received from clients against the JSON schema included in this specification. Where additional constraints are applied by the API using the '/constraints' resource, these restrictions should be merged with the provided JSON schema in order to provide consistent validation.
